---
description: Power of appropriate Government to make rules
---

### Power of appropriate Government to make rules

1. The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.
2. In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:—
    1. the fees or allowances to be paid to the Members under sub-section (4) of section 4;
    2. nomination of members under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 7;
    3. the fees or allowances to be paid to the Chairperson, and Members under sub-section (4) of section 7;
    4. the person who may make complaint under sub-section (2) of section 9;
    5. the manner of inquiry under sub-section (1) of section 11;
    6. the powers for making an inquiry under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 11;
    7. the relief to be recommended under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 12;
    8. the manner of action to be taken under clause (i) of sub-section (3) of section 13;
    9. the manner of action to be taken under sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 14;
    10. the manner of action to be taken under section 17;
    11. the manner of appeal under sub-section (1) of section 18;
    12. the manner of organising workshops, awareness programmes for sensitising the employees and orientation programmes for the members of the Internal Committee under clause (c) of section 19; and
    13. the form and time for preparation of annual report by Internal Committee and the Local Committee under sub-section (1) of section 21.
3. Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
4. Any rule made under sub-section (4) of section 8 by the State Government shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of the State Legislature where it consists of two Houses, or where such Legislature consists of one House, before that House.
